For accelerating the effectiveness of Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan, the monitoring of the goals under Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan is the most important thing to be done.
To successfully implement the cause of the Millions of toilets made under Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan, having a record of how much they are actually being used is important.
For monitoring toilet usage in the rural areas of India, we have developed ETUM. 
ETUM has been made considering conditions like lack of electricity in villages, remoteness of the area and lack of services.
ETUM is a cost effective device which will tell the approximate usage of the toilets for a duration of about 5 months after which the data will have to be recorded manually.

General Description:-
ETUM operates on the principle of human detection technology using a PIR sensor. A PIR sensor detects Infrared rays emitted by the human body.
Everytime a person enters into the toilet, the PIR sensor will read high increasing the previous value by 1, and will store this data for about 5 months with average usage in every week during these
months.
Our idea suggests that the device will be installed in every toilet present into the village and after a duration of 5 months a person has to go to every house and take
the reading of the device and replace the battery used in it. Then he will give the feedback to a centralised database where the data of all the villages will be recorded and studied.
The device is accurate as whole device works without manual work (except manual recording) and has a long lifetime if not damaged physically.

Cost-effectiveness:-
Calculating the whole manufacturing of the device along with the price of each and every component used in it, the device will have an estimated cost of 150 rupees.
The exact cost of the device depends on the amount of quantities being ordered collectively and from where they are being ordered and many other factors.
(The price data of products we have considered for evaluation of cost of our device have been provided in the PDF attached)

Scalability:-
The device is safe to use and have an optimum cost for a large scale usage in rural or urban areas.
The device has no maintenance cost and low operating cost.
Also assigning the responsibility of data recording from every house in the village to a person is feasible and would help to keep an accurate record of the whole data.
Extremely low maintenance cost, long lifetime and low cost of the device makes it perfect for large scale usage.